Novice Python: Publishing (#222)
merely-useful/merely-useful.github.io: py-publishing.Rmd

# Publishing {#py-publishing}

## Questions {#py-publishing-questions}

```{r, child="questions/py-publishing.md"}
```

## Why should I share my work on the internet?

A key part of any project is communicating what you have learned.

> You've already seen how to create documents to communicate your work with R Markdown,

Reviewer: R Markdown? Replace with python equivalent, is it Jupyter Notebooks in this instance?

Author: Hmmm, I thought I replaced all these, apparently I missed three!

To understand what it takes to get a webpage online,
it helps to understand roughly what happens when you point your browser at a web address.
When you point your browser at an address,
for example https://merely-useful.github.io/py-publishing.html,
the following things happen:

1. The URL `https://merely-useful.github.io` points to a location on another computer
   where the relevant files for this website reside.
   This computer is known as the website host or server,
   since it *hosts* the webpage files on its local storage drives
   and *serves* them to us via the internet.
2. The browser requests the file `py-publishing.html` from the host.
3. The browser reads the contents of `py-publishing.html` and displays it for you in the browser window.

In reverse order this process also describes what you need to do to get your own website online:

1. You need an HTML file that describes what people should see on your page.
2. You need to host the HTML file on a computer on the internet.
3. You need a way to associate a URL with the address of your host.

In this chapter,
you'll learn a process for getting your work online that leverages what you already know ---

> creating HTML files using R Markdown (#1 above) and how to host your work in a GitHub repository (#2).

Reviewer: What do they already know?  Sounds on the Python side they haven't seen how to create HTML yet?

Author: Good catch! Reworded.

The third step will be handled by a GitHub service called [GitHub Pages][gh-pages].
By following the conventions that GitHub Pages expects,
you'll be able to make a webpage for any of your repositories available at:
`http://{{your_username}}.github.io/{{repo_name}}`.

## How do I get my work on the web?

### A starting point

TODO: revisit this later when more content is fleshed out.  Maybe there will be a repo we can rely on all learners having that we can start from.

In practice you'll probably start thinking about a website once you've already done a lot of work on a project ---

> your project will already have some analysis documented in R Markdown,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your project will already have some analysis documented in a JupyterLab Notebook,
```

be in version control and hosted on GitHub.
However,
so that we can work with a specific example,
you'll set up a project in this section that is less developed
than where your project might be when you start thinking about making a website.

At the end of this section,
you should have a project folder with an example report in `report.Rmd`.
This project should also be on GitHub at `https://github.com/{{your_username}}/sharing-work`,
where `{{your_username}}` should be substituted with your GitHub username,
e.g. mine is at https://github.com/cwickham/sharing-work.

Let's start by creating a GitHub repository called `sharing-work`,
by following illustrated steps in [the GitHub guide][github-new-repo].

[github-new-repo]: https://help.github.com/en/articles/create-a-repo

Open JupyterLab and create a new Jupyter Notebook
("File -> New -> Notebook", or the Python symbol on the launcher page)
Rename this file to `report.ipynb` and pair it with an `.Rmd` file using Jupytext.
The pairing to an `.Rmd` file is not necessary,
but enables a more human-friendly version control workflow.

> 

Reviewer: Oh now I'm confused.  Do learners need to know about R Markdown, or is this just a convenient way to have the notebook in version control?  What does this mean for my earlier comments about "R markdown"?  Is this something learners will have / need to see earlier (e.g. the R book covers it in "Reproducibility")?

Author: This is just a convenient way of having notebooks under version control. It is what we recommend in the Jupyter section that I have in another PR, so although it is not technically necessary here, I kept it as .Rmd for consistency. Your earlier comments about R Markdown are not influenced by this.

> In the first cell create a markdown title that reads "Sharing work".

Reviewer: You've written this like learners know what a "markdown title" is...do they?

Author: Yes, this is included in the Jupyter section I just made, but I reworded to clarify here also.
